{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 混全帯么九
|english     = Terminal or honor in each group
|value       = 2 han (closed)<br>1 han (open)
|yakuSpeed   = Medium
|difficulty  = Medium
|yakuCombine = * [[Riichi]]
* [[Ippatsu]]
* [[Pinfu]]
* [[Iipeiko]]
* [[Ryanpeiko]]
* [[Sanshoku]]
* [[Sanshoku douko]]
* [[Honitsu]]
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2013102808gm-0009-7447-083ba4f7&tw=2&ts=4 Closed chanta]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014012812gm-0009-0000-88caba9f&tw=2&ts=8 Open chanta]
}}

'''Chanta''' {{kana|全帯}} is the common name to '''honchantaiyaochuu''' {{kana|混全帯么九}}. It is a [[terminal]] and [[jihai|honor]] based [[yaku]].  For this yaku, every [[mentsu|tile group]] and the [[jantou|pair]] must contain at least one [[terminal]] or [[jihai|honor]] tile.  The hand must contain at least one honor and one non-terminal tile, otherwise the hand will score [[junchantaiyao|junchan]], [[honroutou]], or [[chinroutou]] instead.  Occasionally, it can be referred to as '''chantaiyao''' {{kana|全帯么}} or '''chantaiyaochuu''' {{kana|全帯么九}}. 

==Tile pattern==

{{#mjt:123p999s44z23789m}} Waiting for: {{#mjt:1m}}

''Note'': This hand is also waiting for {{#mjt:4m}}, but it would [[Takame and yasume|not be chanta]].

==Formation==
By definition, every [[mentsu|tile group]] must include a [[terminal]] or [[jihai|honor]] tile.  So combinations of tile groups involving 1-2-3, 7-8-9, 1-1-1, 9-9-9, and/or any honor [[jantou|pairs]]/[[koutsu|triplet]] applies here.  This brings about the limitations of the terminal tiles, by which they're at the ends of the 1-9 number scale.  Often, this yaku is particularly made easier with [[Naki|tile calls]]; but closed hands are very much doable.

=== Compatability ===
{{main|Yaku compatability}}

{{Yaku compatibility table|CHA}}

Chanta's pattern is similar to [[junchan]]; however, the two can never combine as junchan implies a chanta hand. [[Honroutou]] likewise implies chanta and is thus incompatible. Chanta with [[toitoi]] or [[chiitoitsu]] actually forms honroutou instead of chanta, while chanta with [[chinitsu]] is actually junchan instead of chanta.

Chanta is incompatible with [[tanyao]] and [[ittsu]] because both of those require a group which is not a terminal or honour---in tanyao's case, it is required of all tiles in the hand, and for ittsu, a 4-5-6 sequence is needed.

==External links==
{{jpwiki|混全帯ヤオ九}}

[[Category: Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}