{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 混老頭
|english     = Terminals and honors
|value       = 2 han (consider as 4 han)
|yakuSpeed   = Slow
|difficulty  = Hard
|yakuCombine = * [[Toitoi]]
* [[Sanankou]]
* [[Shousangen]]
* [[Sankantsu]]
* [[Chiitoitsu]]
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2012061612gm-0009-7447-667651ae&tw=3&ts=4 One terminal group]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014012816gm-0009-7447-3851d1db&tw=1&ts=5 With] [[sanshoku doukou]]
}}
'''Honroutou''' {{kana|混老頭}} is a standard yaku, focusing on just the [[jihai|honors]] and [[routouhai|terminals]].  To score honroutou, the hand must contain only honors and terminals.  If the hand is all honors or all terminals, then [[tsuuiisou]] or [[chinroutou]] will be scored instead.

==Tile pattern==

{{#mjt:111p999s11z11m}} {{#mjt:22'2z}}  Agari: {{#mjt:1z}} or {{#mjt:1m}}

==Formation==
This yaku requires [[routouhai|terminal]] and [[jihai|honor]] tiles only.  While terminals may be used for [[shuntsu|sequences]], this yaku cannot form those sequences.  Otherwise, this yaku would no longer be honroutou but rather [[chanta]].  Naturally, a concentration of honor and terminal tiles are required to even consider this yaku.  A majority of honroutou hands are open, especially when they only utilize pon to call tiles.

=== Compatability ===
{{main|Yaku compatability}}

{{Yaku compatibility table|HRO}}

Honroutou is not compatible with any yaku which require a sequence, which accounts for most of the incompatibilities (including [[chankan]], which must always win on a sequence wait). [[Tanyao]] is incompatible because it requires no terminals or honours, and honroutou requires only those tiles. [[Chantaiyao]] is incompatible because it is implied by honroutou. Finally, if [[honroutou]] is combined with [[junchan]], the entire hand must be terminals, which gives the [[chinroutou]] yakuman.

==Value==
At minimum, it is impossible to score this yaku without at least either [[toitoi]] or [[chiitoitsu]].  So, this yaku is actually at minimum, the equivalent of 4 han.  

When factoring [[fu]], the combination of [[koutsu|ankou]] and [[koutsu|minkou]] (closed and open triplets) produces a fu count of higher than 10.  The lowest possible fu is generated with 4 minkou, leading to [[tanki|hadaka tanki]] (lone pair wait).  Adding the base 20 fu for any hand, this yaku is guaranteed greater than 30 fu; and with the rules of fu, that number is actually rounded up to at least 40 fu.  Therefore, a honroutou composed of ankou and minkou is at minimum a [[mangan]].

Example:
:{{#mjt:9s}} {{#mjt:1'11p999'm4'443'33z}}  Agari: {{#mjt:9s}}

This is the second lowest possible honroutou, if not played in the West round.  For each of the open calls, they are worth 4 fu.  In combination, they add up to 16 fu.  Then add the [[tanki]] (pair wait) for 2 fu.  In total, this hand has 18 fu, in addition to the base 20 fu; and that makes 38 fu.  Per the [[scoring|scoring rules]], the number is rounded up to 40 fu.  With a minimum of 4 han and 40 fu, this hand is guaranteed at least mangan when chiitoitsu is not involved.

The lowest scoring honroutou is a [[chiitoitsu]] won by ron without riichi or dora. 

Example:
:{{#mjt:99m11p1199s22334z}}  Ron: {{#mjt:4z}}

This hand scores 4 han and 25 fu for 6400(9600) points.

==External links==
{{jpwiki|混老頭}}

[[Category: Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}