{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 一盃口
|english     = Identical sequences<br>Double sequences<br>Pure Double Chow
|value       = 1 han (closed only)
|yakuSpeed   = Medium
|difficulty  = Easy
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014011309gm-0009-7447-f766aece&tw=0&ts=4 Iipeikou] with [[damaten]]
}}
'''Iipeikou''' {{kana|一盃口}} is a standard [[yaku]] involving two identical [[mentsu#Shuntsu|sequences]].  Identical means that both [[shuntsu]] must be of the same numbers and suit.  This yaku also requires the hand to be closed.  A single [[naki|open call]] invalidates the yaku, even if the pattern exists within the hand.  If this pattern is found twice in one hand, an alternative yaku, [[ryanpeikou]], is scored.

==Tile pattern==

{{#mjt: 334455m00000000z}}

===Rearrangement===

{{#mjt: 345345m00000000z}}

Arrangement of tiles is irrelevant, as long as two groups of tiles form the identical sequences.

==Formation==
This yaku is usually presented as three groups of consecutive pairs.  However, the rule interpretation views them as a two [[shuntsu|sequences]].  Potential acquisition of this yaku is best recognizable when five out of the six tiles are present in the hand.

=== Compatability ===
{{main|Yaku compatability}}

{{Yaku compatibility table|IPK}}

Iipeikou requires two sequences, and as a result is incompatible with [[sanshoku doukou]], [[toitoi]], [[honroutou]], [[chiitoitsu]], [[sanankou]], and [[sankantsu]], all of which require either at least three [[koutsu]]/[[kantsu]] or a seven pair structure. The final incompatibility is with [[ryanpeikou]], as ryanpeikou implies iipeikou and so iipeikou is not counted.

=== Common combinations ===

==External links==
{{jpwiki|一盃口}}

[[Category: Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}