{| cellspacing="2" class="wikitable" align="right"
|-
! Hand # !! Japanese !! English
|-
| 0 || {{kyoku|E|1|0}} || East 1
|-
| 1 || {{kyoku|E|2|0}} || East 2
|-
| 2 || {{kyoku|E|2|1}} || East 2 Bonus 1
|-
| 3 || {{kyoku|E|3|0}} || East 3
|-
| 4 || {{kyoku|E|3|1}} || East 3 Bonus 1
|-
| 5 || {{kyoku|E|4|0}} || East 4
|-
| 6 || {{kyoku|S|1|0}} || South 1
|-
| 7 || {{kyoku|S|1|1}} || South 1 Bonus 1
|-
| 8 || {{kyoku|S|2|0}} || South 2
|-
| 9 || {{kyoku|S|2|1}}|| South 2 Bonus 1
|-
| 10 || {{kyoku|S|3|0}} || South 3
|-
| 11 || {{kyoku|S|3|1}} || South 3 Bonus 1
|-
| 12 || {{kyoku|S|4|0}} || South 4
|-
|colspan=3 align=center|''Extra west round''
|-
| 13 || {{kyoku|W|1|0}} || West 1
|-
| 14 || {{kyoku|W|2|0}} || West 2
|- 
| 15 || {{kyoku|W|2|1}} || West 2 Bonus 1
|-
| 16 || {{kyoku|W|3|0}} || West 3
|-
| 17 || {{kyoku|W|4|0}} || West 4
|-
|colspan=4 align=right|[http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014041817gm-0089-0000-96d6e343&tw=0 Source]
|}

'''Kyoku''' {{kana|局}} is the identifier for each mahjong hand played during the game.  It uses a combination of the wind round, a number 1-4, and the '''[[honba]]''' count {{kana|本場}}.  As an example, the very first hand is always East Round 1, Honba 0 {{kana|{{kyoku|E|1|0}}}}.  As the first hand of the game, it is impossible for it to have an alternative designation.  All subsequent hands may differ due to the different ways the game plays out, barring [[renchan]].

For every wind rotation, the designation for the wind round increases by one.  After East Round 1, then the game moves onto East Round 2.  This indicates that the player to the right of the initial dealer has become the new dealer.  This continues onto East Round 4, which is the last round for East.  If the game continues from here, then the designation becomes South Round 1.  Here, the initial dealer once again became the dealer.  Only this time, it is the South Round.  Most games end after South Round 4.  If necessary, the game continues into the West Round.

Barring certain conditions, the dealer has the ability to retain position and deny a wind rotation in the next hand.  In this case, renchan occurs.

== External links ==
[[Category:Game rules]]