{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 門前清自摸和<br>ツモ
|english     = Self draw
|value       = 1 han (closed only)
|yakuSpeed   = Varies
|difficulty  = Varies
|yakuCombine = All standard yaku, with closed hands
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2013080711gm-0089-0000-xc583fa87d1c2&tw=0 Tsumo with tanyao]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014012608gm-0009-7447-12a13787&tw=3&ts=8 Tsumo nomi] with some [[dora]].
}}
'''Menzenchin tsumohou''' {{kana|門前清自摸和}}, otherwise referred as '''menzen tsumo''' or even simpler '''tsumo''' {{kana|ツモ}}, is a yaku involving closed hands.  Literally, a player with a closed [[tenpai]] hand may win with tsumo, as this is a yaku all on its own.

==Formation==
With this yaku, all closed hands qualify for menzen tsumo, even if it is the only yaku.  No open hand may qualify for this yaku.  The instant a player [[Naki|calls on a discarded tile]], then the player forfeits the right to claim this yaku until the next hand, just like [[riichi]].

== Compatibility ==
{{main|Yaku compatibility}}

{{Yaku compatibility table|SMO}}

Mentsumo with [[toitoi]] is actually the yakuman, [[suuankou]].  Otherwise, this yaku is compatible with all yaku except for [[houtei]] and [[chankan]].  Neither of those two yaku can win by self-draw.

=== With riichi ===
This yaku is typically accompanied with riichi.  Of course, the [[riichi strategy|use of riichi]] is only advisable on the current state of the game: current point standing, other player riichi calls, potentially threatening hands, tile waits, and tile availability.  At times, it may simply be advisable to utilize [[damaten]], rather than putting one self at risk.

==External links==
{{jpwiki|門前清自摸和}}

[[Category: Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}