{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 流し満貫
|english     = Nagashi mangan
|value       = [[Scoring|Mangan]]
|yakuSpeed   = Extremely slow
|difficulty  = Very hard
|gameExample = [[Nagashi mangan/Replays|Replay list]]
|yakuCombine = No other yaku
}}
'''Nagashi mangan''' {{kana|流し満貫}} is a special [[yaku]].  It operates just like [[ryuukyoku]] but the point exchange is larger.  As the name implies, the amount of [[mangan]] is exchanged.  Unlike all other possible hands, this yaku emphasizes the discards, rather than the hand itself.  As for the [[Jikaze|dealer rotation]], only the dealer's hand matters in relation to [[tenpai]].  Even if the dealer loses points due to nagashi mangan, the seating may be retained if the hand is in tenpai.  That is assuming the rule of tenpai-[[renchan]], as opposed to agari-renchan.

== Scoring nagashi mangan ==
This yaku has specific conditions for qualification:

* The hand must play all the way to [[ryuukyoku]], which means no one must win a hand before all the tiles are drawn.
* Every discard of the player must be a terminal or an honor tile.
* The player may not have [[naki|called any tiles]].
* No tiles may have been called from the player's own discard pile.
* Upon reaching ryuukyoku, the player does not need a hand in [[tenpai]].  If the dealer is in tenpai, then the wind seating does not rotate; but it does otherwise.

As the name implies, successful execution of nagashi mangan rewards the player in the amount of a [[mangan]] tsumo. If multiple players win with nagashi mangan, the different tsumo payments occur independently of each other. For instance, if East and South complete nagashi mangan, then their payments to each other will cancel out, and North and West will each pay 4000 to East and 2000 to South.

== Timing at ryuukyoku ==

When the wall is empty and the last discard has not been called for a win, special rulesets may differ on the exact procedure to score nagashi mangan per [[Rule variations|house rules]].

* Some rules score nagashi mangan like a win, before players reveal tenpai hands. [[Honba]] increase the payment, and the winner collects any riichi sticks on the table. The noten penalty is cancelled and noten riichis are not punished with [[chombo]]. Hand progression depends on whether East has won with nagashi mangan.
* Some rules merely score nagashi mangan like a bonus payment, not as a win. Nagashi mangan happens at the same time as players reveal tenpai hands. The noten penalty is cancelled and replaced by the nagashi mangan payment, but that payment is not affected by honba or riichi sticks. Chombo takes precedence over nagashi mangan payments. If there is no chombo, then hand progression depends on whether East is tenpai.

=== Multiple nagashi ===

In the extremely rare event when more than one player is awarded nagashi mangan simultaneously, then each player receives the equivalent of a mangan tsumo.  That implies even a winning player pays into the tsumo payment.

== Rule variations ==
Nagashi mangan is subject to a couple of [[Yaku_variations#Nagashi_mangan|rule variations]].  Some rulesets do not use nagashi mangan at all.  Then there are some variations regarding [[naki|tile calls]], particularly calls for [[ankan|closed kan]].

==External links==
{{jpwiki|流し満貫}}

[[Category:Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}