{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 平和
|english     = All sequences
|value       = 1 han
|yakuSpeed   = Very fast
|difficulty  = Very easy
|yakuCombine = All yaku except [[Chiitoitsu]] and [[koutsu|koutsu based]] yaku.
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2013010416gm-0009-7447-x8de057189079&tw=1&ts=3 Pinfu] with [[riichi]]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014011309gm-0009-7447-cf5a6054&tw=3&ts=7 Pinfu] with [[damaten]]
}}

'''Pinfu''' {{kana|平和}} is a standard yaku.  This yaku is defined by having 0 fu aside from the base 20 fu, or 30 fu in the case of a closed ron. It is worth 1 han and closed only.  Under all cases, a [[tenpai]] for pinfu requires the [[machi|wait pattern]] of [[ryanmen]] (open wait).

==Tile diagram==

{{#mjt:123m23478s56799p}}  Winning tile: {{#mjt:6s}} or {{#mjt:9s}}

The winning tile completes the last sequence, which is worth 0 fu, making the hand pinfu.

==English reference==
{{main|Fu}}

In English, pinfu is sometimes referred to as "all sequences".  However, the yaku is not as simple as that.  Other than having an open hand, it is possible for a hand to be composed of all sequences and still not be classed as a pinfu. 

===Counter examples===
The following examples are all "all sequence hands"; but they are not pinfu.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
|width=50%| {{machi|pattern     = 456m345p78p55s8z5'67s|tilewaits   = 69p|wait status = Agari}} 
|width=50%| Every tile group is a sequence, but this hand is [[Naki|open]].
|-
|style="background:#444; color:white;" colspan=2|
|-
|width=50%| {{machi|pattern     = 23m123p678s345m11z|tilewaits   = 14m|wait status = Agari}} 
|width=50%| The pair of east winds disqualifies the hand as pinfu for the dealer or for any player in the [[east round]].
|-
|style="background:#444; color:white;" colspan=2|
|-
|width=50%| {{machi|pattern     = 123456p789m567s3m|tilewaits   = 3m|wait status = Agari}} 
|width=50%| The [[tanki|pair wait]] disqualifies this hand as pinfu.
|-
|style="background:#444; color:white;" colspan=2|
|-
|width=50%| {{machi|pattern     = 23m123p678s345m55z|tilewaits   = 14m|wait status = Agari}} 
|width=50%| The [[sangenpai|dragon pair]] does not qualify this hand as pinfu.
|-
|style="background:#444; color:white;" colspan=2|
|-
|width=50%| {{machi|pattern     = 123m234s79s22567p|tilewaits   = 8s|wait status = Agari}}
|width=50%| The [[kanchan|middle wait]] does not qualify this hand as pinfu.
|-
|style="background:#444; color:white;" colspan=2|
|-
|width=50%| {{machi|pattern     = 456m123s3456678p|tilewaits   = 369p|wait status = Agari}}
|width=50%| This hand qualifies for pinfu using either 6-pin or 9-pin.  However, the first tile, 3-pin, functions as tanki.  Coupled with the 6-pin, it is on a 3-6 [[nobetan]].  Nevertheless, 6-pin still qualifies for pinfu, because the han increase takes precedence over fu.
|}

==Fu==
{{main|Fu}}

To understand pinfu, players must understand the nature of '''fu''', or mini-points.  Fu are a set of points associated with hand composition.  In the case of pinfu, the relevant sources of fu comes from the tile groups and the wait patterns.  The only wait pinfu gains fu involves the 10 fu gained from winning with a closed ron.

Therefore, pinfu must avoid these patterns:
* Any koutsu or kantsu is worth at least 2 fu. A pinfu hand must have four shuntsu.
* Winning from a [[Tanki|tanki]], [[Kanchan|kanchan]], or [[Penchan|penchan]] wait is worth 2 fu.
* A pair of [[Yakuhai|yakuhai]], i.e., dragons, the round wind, or the seat wind, is worth 2 fu. A pinfu hand must have a valueless pair.
* An open hand worth 20 fu is counted as 30 fu. Pinfu may only be awarded to a closed hand.

In the end, a pinfu hand must win from a [[Ryanmen|ryanmen]] or [[ryanmenten]] wait.  In other words, the winning tile must complete an open [[shuntsu]] (sequence).

As an exception, pinfu with [[mentsumo]] gains 0 fu from tsumo, or winning by self-draw.  Normally, a winning tile drawn from the wall is worth 2 fu. In turn, the hand qualifies as pinfu, and these 2 fu are waived. The hand is then scored at 20 fu; and at least 2 han for [[Menzen tsumo|menzen tsumo]] and pinfu. Some rule variations may not allow waiving these fu, and score such a hand as 30 fu, tsumo, without pinfu. Such variations are rare.

==Compatibility==
{{main|Yaku compatibility}}

{{Yaku compatibility table|PFU}}

Essentially, pinfu is incompatible with any yaku that employs [[ankou|triplets]], including [[rinshan]]. It is similarly incompatible with [[chiitoitsu]], which does not use [[mentsu]] at all.  On the other hand, pinfu works any sequential based yaku.  As long as the hand is closed, the pair does not produce "[[Scoring#Fu|fu]]", and the wait is [[ryanmen|open]], then pinfu may be applied.

==Usage==

==External links==
{{jpwiki|平和_(麻雀)}}

[[Category:Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}