{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yaku
|kanji       = 三色同刻
|english     = Three colored triplets
|value       = 2 han
|yakuSpeed   = Very slow
|difficulty  = Very hard
|yakuCombine = * [[Riichi]]
* [[Ippatsu]]
* [[Menzen tsumo]]
* [[Tanyao]]
* [[Toitoi]]
* [[Sanankou]]
* [[Chanta]]
* [[Junchan]]
* [[Sankantsu]]
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014010610gm-0009-7447-dfd7e99e&tw=4 Open]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014031700gm-0049-0000-e730a75d&tw=1&ts=5 Nomi]
}}
'''Sanshoku doukou''' {{kana|三色同刻}} is a standard yaku.  This yaku involves [[koutsu]] (triplets) of the same numbered tiles across the three [[Japanese mahjong#Mahjong tiles|main suits]].

==Tile pattern cases==

For this sanshoku doukou there are cases where the yaku is [[Takame|guaranteed]] and cases where [[Yasume|it is not]].

===Case where sanshoku doukou is guaranteed===

{{#mjt:333m33367s33z}} {{#mjt:33'3p}} Agari: {{#mjt:5s}} or {{#mjt:8s}}

Here, all three [[koutsu]] of number three are already on the hand, and sanshoku doukou is guaranteed for both tiles waited on.

===Case where sanshoku doukou is not guaranteed===

{{#mjt:333m3345666s}} {{#mjt:33'3p}} Agari: {{#mjt:3s}}

''Note'': This hand is also waiting for {{#mjt:6s}}, but that would not give sanshoku doukou.

{{#mjt:333m33678s33z}} {{#mjt:33'3p}} Agari: {{#mjt:3s}}<br/>

''Note'': This hand is also waiting for {{#mjt:3z}}, but that would not give sanshoku doukou.

==Formation==
This yaku is actually a fairly difficult yaku to complete.  For every number across the three different suits, there are only 12 tiles. A sanshoku douko hand has to have 9 of the 12 tiles of one number. The 3 tiles of that number ''not'' in the hand has to be one of each suit, which yields pretty bad odds.

=== Compatability ===
{{main|Yaku compatability}}

{{Yaku compatibility table|SDO}}

Sanshoku doukou is incompatible with any yaku requiring more than one sequence, namely [[pinfu]], [[iipeikou]], [[ittsuu]], [[sanshoku doujun]], and [[ryanpeikou]]. It cannot be combined with [[honitsu]] and [[chinitsu]], which require tiles of a single suit. [[chiitoitsu]] requires seven pars, which precludes the triplets for sanshoku doukou. Finally, [[shousangen]]'s two dragon triplets do not leave enough room for the three triplets of suited tiles required.

==Value==
Whether open or closed, this yaku remains at 2 han.

==External links==
{{jpwiki|三色同刻}}

[[Category: Yaku]]

{{Navbox yaku}}