{{infobox machi
|kanji       = 双ポン
|english     = Dual paired
|fu          = Depends on the tiles
|type        = 2
|available   = 4
|tilePattern = {{#mjt:11m55z}}
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014011512gm-0089-0000-879f6dfd&tw=0&ts=6 Shanpon] with [[mentsumo]]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014012718gm-0089-0000-a9b4a016&tw=1&ts=6 Honor based]
}}

'''Shanpon''' {{kana|双ポン}} is a [[machi|wait pattern]] involving two groups of paired tiles, where either is looking to complete a [[mentsu|triplet]].

== Pattern == 

{{#mjt:0000z66p33s00000z}} Waiting for: {{#mjt:6p}} or {{#mjt:3s}}

== Fu ==
{{main|Fu}}
The fu generated from a shanpon depends on the tiles themselves.  Triplets using [[Jihai|honor tiles]] or [[Routouhai|terminals]] are worth more than [[tanyao|simples]].  When claimed for a win, the newly completed triplet is considered to be open.

== Usage ==
At most, a shanpon wait looks for 4 tiles of 2 tile types (2 tiles each).  The pattern has one main advantage, by which it is immune to [[suji]].  Plus, it can easily incorporate honor tiles.  Players looking to [[defense|defend]] may fall to these traps fairly easily.

The major disadvantage to shanpon involves locked tiles.  In this case, pairs of waiting tiles may be incorporated into other player(s) waiting hands, which may or may not be dropped.  If this happens, then one or both tile types decrease in likelihood for a win.  Of course, the win may be assured, if such a player decided to split a pair and discard the needed tile.

=== Combinations ===
Shanpon may combine with other tile waits.  Shanpon with [[ryanmen]] produces [[entotsu]].  This combination may be increased with [[ryanmenten]].  Shanpon has the ability to mix with itself.  This is only possible with a built-in pattern of [[iipeikou]], plus a fourth numbered pair in the sequence.

==External links==
{{Navbox machi}}

[[Category:Terminology]]
[[Category:Machi]]