{{infobox machi
|kanji       = 竜巻
|english     = Tornado
|fu          = Variable
|type        = 5
|available   = 13
|tilePattern = 
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2015090315gm-00d1-0000-647ecc27&tw=0 Example]
* [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2015110914gm-0089-0000-b095eed3&tw=0&ts=1 Suuankou tanki]
}}

'''Tatsumaki''' {{kana|竜巻}} is a [[machi|tile wait pattern]] that uses a combination of [[ryanmen]], [[shanpon]], and [[tanki]] waits to create a hand waiting on 5 consecutive tiles in the same suit. This is a particularly powerful waiting pattern as it relies on only seven tiles in the concealed portion of the hand, so even with two called [[mentsu|tile groups]], the hand can have a 5-sided wait.

== Pattern ==
{{machi
|pattern   = 000z4445666p000z
|tilewaits = 34567p
}}

To determine the waiting tiles, a player must rely on the basic wait patterns.  One ryanmen wait looks for 3-pin and 6-pin.   Another ryanmen waits for 4-pin and 7-pin.  Finally, a tanki wait is aiming for a 5-pin.  The shanpon wait overlaps the ryanmen waits, as it goes for the 4-pin or 6-pin.

The pattern is always composed of two sets of numbered triplets.  The numbers of these triplets must be two away from each other, such as 4 and 6 from the example.  The two sets of triplets are connected by a single numbered tile inbetween the two numbers.  In this case, it is 5.  If one of the triplets happen to consist of [[terminals]], the pattern is still a tatsumaki.  However, the number of possible waiting tiles is reduced.

== Fu ==
This pattern generates 2fu for a [[tanki]] wait only if it is won with the middle tile. Winning with any of the four other tiles will not give any fu, as it will be interpreted as a ryanmen wait.  If interpreted for shanpon, then fu is generated based on the tile composition.

== External links ==
{{jpwiki|聴牌#2つの暗刻の間に単騎の牌がはさまっている形}}

{{Navbox machi}}

[[Category:Terminology]]
[[Category:Machi]]