'''Toutenkou''' {{kana|東天紅}} is a special [[sanma|3-player mahjong]] variation mainly popular in [[wikipedia:Kantō_region|Kanto region]]. Currently available in [[Tenhou.net|Tenhou]] computer matches (beta test).


'''Disclaimer''': This page only introduces rules used in Tenhou. Details are not consistent, and variation exists in other platforms.

== Rule Introduction ==
Only uses {{#mjt:159m}} of [[manzu]] tiles, while all of [[pinzu]], [[souzu]] and [[honor]] tiles are used (including red fives {{#mjt:0m0p0s}}). 112 tiles in total.

{{#mjt:159m4z}} are gari {{kana|ガリ}} (similar to [[Dora#Nukidora|nukidora]]). 20 rinshan tiles in total.

A valid winning hand must include at least one of any regular yakus (identical to regular riichi mahjong yakus). A hand cannot win with only special yakus.

Instead of calculating with [[fu]] and [[han]], the score is only counted with points.

[[Ron]] takes points from only one opponent (with 8 more extra points than tsumo).

[[Tsumo]] takes points from two opponents.

== Special Yakus ==
'''Notes''': Both of the followings are bonuses. A hand cannot be claimed with only those following yakus.

(1 pt) '''Oya''' {{kana|親}}: Add one point when winning as dealer.

(1 pt) '''Menzen''' {{kana|門前}}: Add one point when the winning hand is concealed.

(1 pt) '''Honba''' {{kana|本場}}: Add one point for each [[honba]].

(1 pt) '''Gari''' {{kana|ガリ}}: Add one point for each nukidora ({{#mjt:159m4z}}). For {{#mjt:0m}} it is also a red dora, so it actually worths 2 points.

(2 pts) '''Base point''' / '''Banban''' {{kana|バンバン}}: Add two points for each winning hand for no reason.

(2 pts) '''Minkan''' {{kana|明槓}}: Add two points for each opened kan.

(4 pts) '''Ankan''' {{kana|暗槓}}: Add four points for each concealed kan.

(4 pts) '''Set''' {{kana|セット}} <ref group="note">Set is also called Storm / Arashi {{kana|アラシ}} in some platform.</ref> : Add four points for each collected set of gari (four identical tiles of gari). Can be stacked with gari.

(8 pts) '''Ron''' {{kana|ロン}}: Add eight points when winning by other's dealing-in.

(10 / 20 pts) '''Crow''' / '''Karasu''' {{kana|カラス}}: Winning a hand without drawing any gari tiles. Add ten points when winning hand is opened, while twenty points when concealed.

(20 pts) '''All Gari''' {{kana|全ガリ}}: Add twenty points when collecting all gari tiles. Can be stacked with gari.

== Notes ==
* Dora for manzu part is a bit weird. When indicator is {{#mjt:1m}}, dora is {{#mjt:9m}}; when indicator is {{#mjt:9m}}, dora is {{#mjt:1m}}; however when indicator is {{#mjt:5m}}, none of the tiles is dora.
* Gari tiles can be used in hand, and also can be discarded, but can only get Gari's point when it is claimed as a nukidora.
* Set is still acquirable with some gari tiles used in hand. They're not required to be all claimed as nukidora.
* [[Riichi]] values 1 point. Riichi bet is also 1 point.
* A single round ends when there's no tile left before dora indicators.
* Noten penalty of [[ryuukyoku]] is 20 points.
* Gari can be claimed even in last turn.
* [[Rinshan Kaihou]] is available with rinshan tiles drawn from Gari.
* Crow / Karasu requires no any gari tiles both existing in hand, in discards and used as nukidoras.
* [[Yakuman]] yakus cannot stack with other regular non-yakuman yakus as usual, though they can still stack with toutenkou-specified special yakus. Each yakuman yaku values 20 points.

== References ==
<references/>
'''Notes''':
<references group="note"/>

== External Links ==
{{jpwiki|東天紅_(麻雀)}}
* Rule description of Tenhou's Toutenkou: http://blog.tenhou.net/article/186578700.html