{{Infobox yaku
|type        = Yakuman
|kanji       = 字一色
|english     = All honors
|value       = Yakuman
|difficulty  = Very hard
|yakuSpeed   = Very slow
|yakuCombine = * [[Tenhou]]
* [[Chihou]]
* [[Daisangen]]
* [[Suu ankou]]
* [[Shousuushii]]
* [[Daisuushii]]
* [[Suu kantsu]]
|gameExample = * [http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2014100817gm-0089-0000-317bf793&tw=3 Tsuuiisou]
}}
'''Tsuuiisou''' {{kana|字一色}} is a [[List of yaku#Yakuman|yakuman]] in which the hand consists entirely of [[Jihai|honor tiles]].

==Tile pattern==
{{#mjt:1112226644z}} {{#mjt:7'77z}} Agari: {{#mjt:6z}} or {{#mjt:4z}}

== Viability ==
For this yakuman, all [[kazehai]] (wind tiles) and [[sangenpai]] (dragon tiles) can be used.  So, that gives seven tile types to choose from.  Given the nature of honor tiles, the different types cannot be mixed to form [[mentsu|tile groups]].  Therefore, they must be collected in the form of [[Mentsu#Koutsu|koutsu]] (triplets).  

===Development===
This yakuman is only reasonably achievable, when in possession of at least multiple [[toitsu]] (pairs) of the honor tiles.  Otherwise, players may have to resort towards yaku, like [[yakuhai]] or [[honitsu]] for attaining [[tenpai]].  Regarding tile discards, any non-honor tile is deemed irrelevant and must be discarded.  This may include [[dora]] tiles.  More often than not, players will call "pon" in order to claim and complete honor tile groups, until tenpai and eventually winning the hand (assuming to be the case).  While it is possible to complete this hand while closed, it would seek to be in the form of a [[suuankou]] tenpai.

== Daichisei ==
{{#mjt:1122334455667z}}  Agari: {{#mjt:7z}}

A [[Optional yaku|specific variant]] to tsuuiisou is possible and can be considered as a separate yakuman, '''daichiisei''' {{kana|大七星}}, which means "Big Seven Stars".  It is a variant of [[chiitoitsu]] (seven pairs). There are exactly seven types of honor tiles, which makes this difficult pattern possible but more difficult than the regular tsuuiisou.  As a consequence, this variation remains as a closed only hand.  This is [[optional yaku|optionally]] worth [[Multiple yakuman|double yakuman]].

==External links==
{{jpwiki|字一色}}

[[Category:Yakuman]]

{{Navbox yaku}}