+++
title = "Tile efficiency"
arcturus_wiki_id = "2519"
tags = ["Strategy"]
+++

**Tile efficiency** is a process of **hand development**, where a player seeks to make maximized use
of either draws and/or discards to attain or even complete the hand as fast as possible. It rests on
the limited number of draws, discards, and even hands, that players can use to win or even try to
win. Tile sources come from the opening hand, wall draws, and other players. It is up to the player
to make the best decision on tile draws and discards.

Unlike Poker or many other card games, the hand value is not a determinant towards winning. Instead,
it is a matter of who develops a winning hand first. Of course, for defensive purposes, a player may
outright disregard tile efficiency and abandon the hand instead.

## Categorizing tiles

### Isolated

Isolated tiles are single tiles, which has no tiles numerically or categorically adjacent to them in
order to form tile groups. By rule, this makes tile calling with such tiles illegal. Often, they are
some of the first tiles discarded from the hand. Yet, their presence in the hand retains the
potential for development. This is particularly true when the isolated tile is a dora.

### Taatsu

`main|Taatsu`

**Taatsu** {{< kana "塔子" >}} are numbered tile pairs in need of one more in order to complete a
sequence. Examples such as 1-2 needing a 3; 3-5 needing a 4; and 6-7 needing either a 5 or 8. When
developing a hand, it is often good practice to maintain these tile pairs in order to increase the
chances of completing sequences and thus completing the hand.

### Toitsu

`main|Toitsu`

## Yaku

`main|Yaku`

When building hands, yaku are certainly considered as they are a criteria for valid hands as well as
added value to the hand. So, almost always, players have yaku in mind.

In other cases, players may end up simply having tenpai in mind, especially as the hand nears the
later discards. This is of particular concern for the current dealer, who may have an interest in
retaining the position and repeat the hand.

## Counting tiles

`main|Machi`

When developing the hand, tiles take on different shapes, especially when taatsu are involved. The
hand will lean in search of particular tiles, by which some many no longer be available. They may
either be discarded, have one as the dora indicator, or be in a player's tile call. Any tile, whose
whereabouts are unknown, are considered to be **live tiles**.

## Shanten

`main|Shanten`

## External links

- [Tile efficiency articles](http://justanotherjapanesemahjongblog.blogspot.com/p/list-of-tile-efficiency-articles.html)
- [Mahjong NY article](http://mahjong-ny.com/?page_id=398)

`Navbox strategy`

- [Source of this page [arcturus wiki]](http://arcturus.su/wiki/Tile_efficiency)
