+++
title = "Space mahjong"
arcturus_wiki_id = "3706"
tags = ["Rule variations"]
+++

**Space mahjong** is a modified set of rules to mahjong. Here, the limitations on terminal tiles and
honor tile are removed. Normally, the 1-9 scale ends with 1 and 9 as terminals. In this set of
rules, the number sequence is given the wrap around effect when it comes to the formation of tile
groupings.

## Tile groupings

Due to the wrap around effect, the terminal tiles operate just like any other numbered tile.

### Numbered tiles

### Honor tiles

With wrap-around effect, honor tiles become significantly important, for the fact that honor-related
yakus are usually in high value, as well as they can now form mentsus efficiently.

Any three different tiles of kazehais / sangenpais can be formed as a valid shuntsu. That means all
of the following sets are valid:

{{< t 123z >}}, {{< t 234z >}}, {{< t 341z >}}, {{< t 412z >}}, {{< t 567z >}}.

Any two different tiles of kazehais / sangenpais can be formed as a valid taatsu:

- {{< t 12z >}}, ryanmen waiting for both {{< t 3z >}} and {{< t 4z >}}.
- {{< t 13z >}}, kanchan waiting for both {{< t 2z >}} and {{< t 4z >}}.
- {{< t 56z >}}, waiting for {{< t 7z >}}, can be interpreted as either kanchan or ryanmen.

Four different tiles of kazehais can be formed as a 4-sided tanki wait:

- {{< t 1234z >}}, tanki waiting for {{< t 1234z >}}.

## Yakus

### Tanyao

There's no more special combination generated by this ruleset. Everything works as still.

### Chanta / Junchan

Aside from honor-tile shuntsus, there're two more available combinations of numbered-tile shuntsus:
891 and 912. This makes chanta and junchan become much easier than in regular rules.

{{< t 912m891p11s56z >}} {{< t -124z >}} Agari: {{< t 7z >}}

### Honroutou

The restriction of Toitoi / Chiitoi-based hand no longer applies, as honors can be used for
shuntsus.

The following hand shows how it is possible with Honroutou-nomi.

{{< t 99m111p11s234z >}} {{< t 9-99p >}} Agari: {{< t 9m1s >}}

### Kokushi Musou

Opened kokushi is no longer unavailable since honor tiles can be grouped as shuntsus.

{{< t 19m19p119s >}} {{< t -234z >}} {{< t -657z >}} Agari: {{< t 1z >}}

Though the value of such opened hand is usually reduced for balancing purpose (e.g. 2 \~ 3 hans),
since it makes kokushi musou significantly easier than menzen one.

### Junsei Chuuren Poutou

Theoretically a 9-sided wait hand is no longer restricted to the regular form since numbered tiles
can be wrapped around. That means such hand

{{< t 1233344456789p >}} Agari: {{< t 347p >}} (in regular rules)

can be interpreted as:

{{< t 4445678912333p >}} Agari: {{< t 456789123p >}} (in space mahjong rules)

Though depending on rule details this may be recognized as a valid chuuren, or maybe not.

## External links

- [Source of this page [arcturus wiki]](http://arcturus.su/wiki/Space_mahjong)
