+++
title = "Ikkitsuukan"
arcturus_wiki_id = "208"
tags = ["Yaku"]
+++

```yaku
|type = Yaku
|kanji = 一通 or 一気通貫
|english = Straight
|value = 2 han
1 han (open)
|yakuSpeed = Fast
|difficulty = Easy
|yakuCombine = \* Pinfu

  - Yakuhai
  - Iipeiko
  - Chinitsu

|gameExample = \* [Closed ittsuu](http://tenhou.net/0/?log=2013010402gm-0009-7447-x1ba0b4910bee&tw=3&ts=7)

  - Ittsuu

```

**Ikkitsuukan** {{< kana "一気通貫" >}}, or **ittsuu** {{< kana "一通" >}} for short, is a yaku,
defined as three distinct tile groups containing 123, 456, 789 of one suit. Collectively, the three
groups form a complete single suit straight of 1 through 9. Naturally, in English terms, this hand
can also be noted as a "straight", similar to the poker hand of the same name. This hand may be
played open or closed. When open, the hand loses value of one han.

## Tile diagram

{{< t 123406789m34p55s >}} Winning tile: {{< t 2p >}} or {{< t 5p >}}

### Open

{{< t 222m46s55z >}} {{< t -123s >}} {{< t -879s >}} Winning tile: {{< t 5s >}}

## Formation

While the hand shows a complete 1-9 grouping from a particular suit, it is best to view the long
cluster as three separate groups of: 123, 456, and 789. This is particularly useful to note when
needing to open the hand with such a combination. For example, having tile groups of 123, 345, 678,
and 789 does not compose this yaku, despite possessing all 1-9 in the hand.

### Counter example

{{< t 12344m56p >}} {{< t -567-789m >}} Waiting for: {{< t 4p >}} or {{< t 7p >}}

In this counter example, the tiles 1-9 for one suit are in the hand. However, ittsuu would not be
counted. In fact, this tenpai hand is lacks yaku on its own. As it stands, it is dependent on either
chankan, haitei, or houtei. The manzu are not grouped as 123, 456, and 789. Instead, they are
grouped as 123, 567, and 789. The 4-man function as the pair rather than belong to any of the
sequences.

## Discard characteristics

Hands aiming for ittsu often lack a particular suit, as a good number of one suit is collected in
the hand.

## Compatability

`main|Yaku compatability`

`Yaku compatibility table|ITT`

Ittsuu requires three out of the four tile groups to be composed of sequences: 123, 456, and 789.
That may only leave room for one tile group of any type, such as a triplet; and so, any yaku that
requires more than one triplet, including sanshoku doukou, toitoi, sanankou, sankantsu, and
shousangen, is deemed incompatible. chiitoitsu is likewise incompatible as it does not use mentsu,
and this disqualifies honroutou since honroutou requires either toitoi or chiitoi. Tanyao, chanta,
and junchan are incompatible as the 456 group contains no terminals or honours, but the 123 and 789
groups contain terminals. Finally, Ittsuu is incompatible with sanshoku doujun and ryanpeikou as
they each require at least three sequences in a way that are incompatible with the sequences used
for ittsuu.

### With pinfu

Pinfu requires a wait pattern of either ryanmen (open wait) or ryanmenten (three sided open). Any
other wait pattern disqualifies pinfu. Ryanmen waits on two tile types, while ryanmenten waits on
three tile types. Both of these wait patterns regarding ittsuu are subject to takame and yasume,
where only one tile type produces a winning hand of higher value. Winning on that one tile would
produce ittsuu; while the others do not. However, this problem is completely averted if the hand
contains the full 1-9 pattern. Thus, the waiting tiles depend on the extra tile group, which renders
the problem moot.

### With honitsu and chinitsu

The development of honitsu and chinitsu with ittsuu is made easier, when nine tiles (1-9) out of the
thirteen of the hand is already single suited. That leaves the remaining four (plus one winning
tile) to be composed of the same suit or an honor tile. But once again, in the case of pinfu, takame
and yakume may apply here, if applicable.

With closed hands, this combination produces some very powerful hands. With honitsu, the hand
produces mangan; while it is baiman with chinitsu.

## External links

`jpwiki|一気通貫`

`Navbox yaku`

- [Source of this page [arcturus wiki]](http://arcturus.su/wiki/Ikkitsuukan)
